Over the past year, I've benchmarked a
ton of free Windows PC optimizers. And
here are my top five free Windows
optimizers to boost FPS, fixters, and
FPS drops with complete benchmarks. So,
put the video into X speed and let's get
right into it. Starting off with the
best Windows optimizer that I found this
year, and it's the Sparkle Optimizer.
So, go down into the description and
download the Sparkle installer. Then,
right click on it and run it as admin.
Then, the installation shall begin. Once
the installation is done, it's going to
automatically launch and give you these
options. Close out of this and go ahead
and create [music] a system restore
point. All right, the restore point has
been created. And now we can move on to
using this software. On the dashboard,
we have all of our system specs. And
then we can move on to the tweaks tab
for optimizing the Windows. As you can
see, there are different categories of
tweaks that we can apply, but we're
going to be keeping it to all and then
applying every single one that is
recommended or safe to use. First one is
debloat windows. Removes unnecessary
Windows features and apps. and it is
recommended. So I'm going to hit on
apply. It is recommended to create a
backup before applying this tweak. So
I'm going to click on apply and then
it's going to go ahead and remove a lot
of the apps and features as you can see.
So basically it's going to go ahead and
just use the PowerShell in order to run
the script and it's going to remove all
of these apps that are built into the
Windows. All right. Now that the Windows
is debloated, we can move on to the
ultimate performance power plan. It's
going to enable and applies the Windows
ultimate performance power plan for
better performance. So, we're going to
turn this on and I assume that it's
going to go ahead and apply it
automatically. Then, align the toss bar
to the left is a Windows 11 feature, so
we don't really need it. Detailed BSOD.
This one is a quality of life
improvement and it adds detailed
information to the blue screen of death.
So, it's really not important for the
performance purposes. Then, disable
background MS store apps. We're going to
go ahead and enable this one, and it's
going to disable the Microsoft Store
apps from running in the background,
which should help free up some
resources. Then, disable copilot will
remove Microsoft Copilot features. and
it will fail if it is not installed. So,
I'm just going to go ahead and disable
it. Disable core isolation. It disables
the core isolation memory integrity to
improve system performance. Now, if you
don't know, I have always recommended to
use this tweak. So, it's really good to
see this one here. Disable defender RTP
or real-time protection. Now, this one
is a bit risky. So, those of you who do
not surf the internet safely, I don't
recommend using this one. But for those
of you who know what they are doing,
simply go ahead and disable the
real-time protection. Disable dynamic
ticking. improves the system
responsiveness and reduces latency by
disabling dynamic timer takes. And if I
hover over this, it may increase power
consumption. So, for laptop users, the
one that may increase power consumption,
I don't really recommend those unless
your laptop is powerful enough or of
course you have it plugged in. But since
I'm on a desktop PC, I'm going to go
ahead and enable this. Disable fast
startup. Disable game bar is
self-explanatory. Disable hibernation is
of course really self-explanatory. Then
we have the disable location tracking,
which disables Windows location
tracking. This one is good for privacy
as well. Disable lock screen tips, of
course. Disable mouse acceleration. This
one is really good if you are playing
FPS games and you don't want the
acceleration because that can really
mess up with your aim. Disable Wi-Fi
sense. It disables Wi-Fi sense to
prevent sharing of Wi-Fi networks with
contacts. For me, this doesn't really
make any difference. So, I'm going to go
ahead and disable it. Enable end with
right click. You can add the end option
to the context menu. Another one of
quality of life improvements. Not really
anything to do with performance. enable
HPE or high precision event timer. It's
going to enable HPE instead of disabling
it. And it says it can reduce stuttering
and improve timing accuracy on some
hardware. However, keep in mind that
this may have the opposite effect on
some other hardware. So, for this one,
you will definitely have to test it out
for yourself whether disabling it or
enabling it works better. In my case,
I'm going to go ahead and leave it
disabled. Optimize network settings
changes various Windows settings to
improve network latency and speeds. So,
after using this, I'll be really curious
to see how it impacts my ping inside of
Fortnite, especially optimize Nvidia
settings. Since I have an AMD card, I'm
going to go ahead and skip this one. But
those of you with an Nvidia card can go
ahead and apply this one. And I'm
actually surprised to not see any AMD
tweaks, which is kind of a bummer. Then
there is the remove gaming apps. It's
going to remove Xbox app, Xbox game bar,
and Xbox game overlay. Now, I do play a
few games that do require this, so I'm
going to keep it in. But otherwise for
you guys, go ahead and hit on apply and
it's going to remove these. Remove one
drive. I highly recommend you to remove
one drive and I already have it removed.
So enabling this will do nothing for me.
But I'm still going to do it for the
sake of the video. Run disk cleanup. I
will go ahead and clean up the C drive.
So I'm going to go ahead and turn it on
and [music] it should run the disck
cleanup utility as you can see. So it
automatically selected and deleted a lot
of the stuff using the Windows disc
cleanup utility. And now it has
successfully resolved the low disk space
condition. Next up is setting services
to manual. Set various Windows services
to manual startup type to improve the
Windows performance. So, I'm assuming
it's only going to set those which are
really safe to set to manual as to avoid
breaking anything. So, I'm going to go
ahead and turn it on and then just trust
it to not break anything. And that's
basically it for all of these tweaks.
Now, we can move on to the cleaner.
However, in my opinion, this one tab is
completely useless because if I go back
to tweaks, you can remember that we use
the run disck cleanup utility which
basically does all of this from just one
place. So having this is really not
useful at all in my opinion. Then let's
move on to utilities. So we have the run
system file checker which I assume it's
going to run the check disk utility from
the cmd. The disism health restore. Then
there is also the run disk check. So all
of these are the commands that are run
inside of cmd in order to make sure that
your windows files and the disks are
completely healthy and there is nothing
corrupted inside of them. These can take
some time. So we're going to be skipping
them for the video, but you can go ahead
and run these whenever you want. Then
there is the run show power plan. So
we're going to click on it. Click on
run. And it shows nothing. I have no
idea why. There's also the run reset IP
stack, the run reset wind sock, run
flash DNS cache, and the disck cleanup
utility once again for some reason. Then
there are some quick access [music]
options such as opening up the registry,
the task manager, system information,
device manager, and all of that good
stuff. Then there are apps. So these
are, I believe, all of the apps that we
can download and install from within
this software. Now we can go ahead and
click on restart now to restart this.
But we can go ahead and close out of
this, restart our PC and then enjoy the
improved performance. Let's move on to
the benchmarks. So in Fortnite, the
average FPS went from 166 to just around
200, which is quite a bit of
improvement, while the 1% lows went from
110 to around 143, which once again is
an improvement that I'm happy about.
Moving on to Valerin, the average FPS
went from 216 to above 300, which is
like a 90 FPS improvement on average,
which is huge. And also, the 1% lows
were improved by a lot too, going from
140s to over 180s, which is quite
impressive in my opinion. And you should
definitely be using this if you're going
to play Valerant. But where do I put
this considering all of these other
optimizers? Based on the improvement
that we got in Valerent as well as
Fortnite, I'm going to be putting the
sparkle-free optimizer in the very good
tier. And it's our very first one in the
very good tier as well because not only
did it improve our average FPS, it also
gave us a huge boost in the 1% lows
which are crucial to fix the tours and
FPS drops. Moving on to the next best
free Windows optimizer and it's the VTRL
optimizer. And once it's installed,
right click on it and run it as admin.
When you run it for the first time, you
will need to login using your Discord or
your Google account. You can just use a
spare Google account to log in, but it's
really up to you. Then we will need to
click on I understand and let's
continue. Right off the bat, you can see
my system specs. This is a pretty
low-end PC and that should give you a
pretty good estimate of how much
improvement can you expect after using
this free optimizer. So, let's move on
to the tweaks tab. Inside of here, there
are a bunch of tweaks that we will be
going over one by one and applying.
Starting with disable background apps,
which is going to remove bloated Windows
applications from running in the
background. So, we're going to turn this
one on. Disable maintenance as well.
Tune priority. adjust the default
Windows allocation of resources to be
better optimized for maximum
performance. This one, I believe, has to
do with Win32 priority. So, we're going
to turn this on for foreground apps.
Disable for startup will make sure that
all of the programs are loaded into the
RAM before the computer is turned off
and back on again. So, of course, we
want to turn this on. Then there's the
disable telemetry. Removes Windows
tracking and data collection and reduces
resource usage. Also, if we click on it,
we can see that there's a warning. It
disables compatibility tab, breaks steps
recorder, Xbox achievements, and can
cause issues with Visual Studio. Since
I'm not really concerned with any of
that, and most of those won't be a
problem for you as well, what we're
going to do is simply turn this on.
Optimize visual effects. We'll just go
to the advanced system settings and turn
off a lot of the animations. Enable game
mode, and it says that it should only be
for Windows 11, but since I'm using
Windows 10, I'm going to follow his
guide and not enable it. Although, I do
recommend turning it on even on Windows
10. Disable accessibility features will
turn off all the ease of access features
like sticky keys and mouse keys.
Optimize memory settings will improve
memory management by adjusting how freed
memory is handled, reducing
fragmentation and enhancing performance.
So, of course, we want to turn this on.
Disable hardware acceleration. Don't
apply it if you use frame generation.
Since I do not use it, I'm going to turn
this on. Then, disable energy savings.
Disable GPU power saving features to
prefer optimal performance. Now, I
always recommend doing this through the
registry file, but yeah, you can turn it
on from here. Disable driver services
removes useless and access Windows
services, leading to less talks for the
CPU. Let's turn it on and let's see how
it performs. Timer resolution only works
on Windows 11, but to be honest, it
doesn't really work on Windows 11 as
well. Optimize mouse optimizes the mouse
settings for better responsiveness and
raw input. So, from what I know, it's
going to basically turn off enhanced
pointer precision and the acceleration
one. So yeah, go ahead and turn it on if
you haven't done that already. Disable
Nvidia telemetry. Since I do not use an
Nvidia card, I'm going to go ahead and
skip this one. Disable Pates. Once
again, this one is only available for
Nvidia users, so I'm not going to be
able to use this. Disable HDCP. Well,
it's already done, but for some reason,
it only does that for Nvidia. Or maybe
it wants me to upgrade to the premium.
I'm not really sure about that. Disable
power gating and Nvidia profile
inspector are once again only used by
Nvidia users. Rock Windows update. This
will of course prevent Windows from
installing any security updates as well.
So, make sure that you only disable this
once you have completely updated your
Windows. Disable transparency will turn
off the transparency effects. Enable
compact explorer. This one has no impact
on performance whatsoever. So, I would
just want you to keep this disabled. And
the rest of these are all premium
options. But let's see if they are worth
the premium. Disable hibernation.
Completely not. Disable desktop. And I
cannot even read its full name because I
need to buy premium for that for some
reason. But yeah, most of these can
easily be found for free on the internet
or you can go ahead and follow these
videos of mine and I show most of them
there. Yeah, let's move on to the next
section and that is power plan. So, we
can go ahead and select the desktop
preset, the laptop preset or the custom
preset. Since I'm on a desktop, I'm
going to go ahead and set the desktop
preset and then click on set power plan.
The power plan has been applied
successfully. I'm going to click on
okay. Then moving on to app booster. So,
here we're going to be going ahead and
adding a program. So, what I'm going to
do is click on it, and it's going to
scan for games. Once it's done scanning,
we can add all of these games. I'm just
going to go ahead and add Fortnite. And
then, if I click on it, I can click on
basic, which is going to turn on all of
these for some reason. Then there's the
custom. So, we can set like custom
options, such as the custom priority
class. We can set it to high. And the
custom input output priority, which on
medium is fine. Focus mode is something
that is locked behind the premium
option. So, we are not able to use that.
But is it really going to make any
difference? So well we will be able to
see that at the end with all of the
benchmarks. Then you can click on save
configuration to save it. I'm also going
to go ahead and add Valerant inside of
here. And then inside of the Valerant we
will be doing the same. [music] So
custom set this to high and that should
be it. Click on save configuration
network tweaks. Of course all of these
are set behind premium as well. However
looking at all of these and I have
looked at all of these before making
this video as well and all of these are
the ones that I have previously shown in
my network videos. So, if you want to
save your money, you can check those
videos out or don't even check my video
out, but watch someone else's video,
maybe Corv's video or someone else's
video. And all of these settings are
completely free that you can apply from
there. Moving on to network scripts, and
once again, it's locked behind premium.
And once again, it's a completely
useless setting. Let's move on to
cleaner. So, what will this cleaner do?
It's going to clean the registry, run
device cleanup, clear file explorer
history, cache files, temp files, and
everything that you can do with the
normal Windows cleanup utility. However,
one thing that I wouldn't recommend is
cleaning the registry. So, make sure
that you turn this one off and then run
the cleaner if you want to [music] run
it. The reason for disabling clean
registry is because sometimes it can
cause a lot of issues with the registry
files that you have applied. So, you may
have applied different optimizations in
the past and then cleaning the registry
can override those. So, just make sure
to disable this and then run the cleaner
if you want to. Then what's inside of
the deblo tab? So, [music] everything
that's in red is not installed on your
system and everything that's on green is
installed on your system. So, what you
can do is check any of the apps that's
not installed and install them if you
want them. But if you want to delete any
of the apps that are already installed,
all you need to do is just click on this
little dot right here and then click on
uninstall selected apps. Now, this one
is of course a really useful feature,
especially for beginners who want to
debloss without messing with powerful
scripts. So, what I would recommend is
that you go through this whole list,
select any of the apps that you want to
uninstall, and then click on uninstall
selected apps. Let's move on to the
startup tab. Inside of here, you can
disable the startup apps that you don't
want to start with your Windows. This
will not only improve your boot times,
but also the overall performance of your
Windows. And yeah, that's pretty much it
for the optimizer. So, go ahead and
restart your PC and I'll meet you with
the benchmarks. So, in Fortnite Creative
Mode, the average FPS went from 165 to
169. Nice. Which isn't that much of an
improvement. However, the 1% lows
actually improved by about 10 FPS as you
can see on screen. Going into an actual
match, the average FPS remained pretty
much the same, hovering around 152.
However, the 1% lows once again saw a
huge improvement, going from around 60s
to high 90s, which did help out a lot
with the stutters. Moving on to
Valerant, the average FPS went from 250s
to around 270s, while the 1% lows once
again were improved a lot, going from
80s to over 180s, which is pretty
impressive. Overall, I would put it into
the good tier, meaning I do recommend
everyone should give the free version a
try, but do not buy the premium option.
Up next is another one of my favorites,
and that's the performance V4 optimizer.
So, starting off, go down into the
description, and you can download both
of these tools. Now, the second one is
for Fortnite specific, and we will be
getting into it later on, but for now,
let's move on to the main tool, and that
is the performance V4. Once you have it
downloaded, right click on it and run it
as admin. It is by Paragon Tweaks and
you can check them out from here. Simply
click on launch to launch the
application. Once it's done scanning the
system, this interface should pop up.
Before applying any of the tweaks, I
highly recommend you to create a system
restore point. Simply click on start and
it should automatically start creating a
restore point. Once it's done creating a
system restore point, you can check
Windows for any corrupt files or
installations. And you can also install
Visual C++ packages by clicking on this
start button which are required for a
lot of the games. But this is not what
we are here for. So, we're going to move
on to tweaks. So, the first one here is
the custom power plan which perfectly
allocates power to essential PC
components and computing needs. So,
let's turn it on and let's see which one
it applies. So, the power plan has been
successfully applied. Let's check it
out. And opening up the power options,
you can see that power gun performance
v4 power plan is automatically applied.
It says that it favors performance but
may use more energy. So, for laptop
users, make sure to monitor your
temperatures and your battery drainage.
As for the desktop users, you don't need
to do anything. Frame rate optimizations
specifically tailored for FPS adjusting
performance values for all games. So, we
don't really know what this is going to
do, but I'm going to have to apply this
for the sake of the video. Looking at
this, from what I know, it just applied
a bunch of hard drive and SSD tweaks.
And of course, there must be a bunch of
other ones which we cannot see since it
doesn't pause on that screen and it just
moves on to this interface once again.
Next is latency reduction. targets low
computing communication traffic between
peripherals and system. So applying this
should give us lower system latency. But
let's see how that works. Process count
offload reduced performance usage by
offramping useless services. So this one
should disable or at least set to manual
a lot of these services to lower the
overall process count and maybe improve
the system performance. Then the last
one here is GPU performance profile
tweaks to improve your GPU's driver
performance for both AMD and Nvidia.
Since I am using an AMD GPU, this would
be quite interesting since a lot of
these tweaking programs tend to favor
Nvidia GPUs over AMD ones. Now that we
have applied all of the tweaks, let's
move on to system cleanup. So, ghost
device sanitation designed to remove
extra unnecessary devices from device
manager. So, in my opinion, it's going
to do two things. One, it's going to
disable the useless devices from device
manager. And number two, it's going to
use the device cleanup utility to remove
all of the ghost devices that were once
connected to your system. So, I'm going
to click on start. And yeah, I think I
was right. It's going to use device
cleanup, and it is in the cmd form to
clean up all of the devices that were
once connected to this system, but are
no longer there. And it has removed 204
devices. This cleanup will clean up the
leftover files from downloads, installs,
uninstalls, etc. This is a built-in
Windows utility, so you don't really
need this tool to run it, but for the
sake of the video, I'm going to click on
start. And as you can see, it just
redirects to the disck cleanup utility
that is built in inside of the Windows
itself. Then the last one is the
transient file removal. I hope I
pronounced that right. Clears up all
temporary files and ensures that no
error occur. So I'm going to click on
start. And yeah, it's just going to go
through all of the logs, all of the
temporary files, the shaders and
everything like that, even the cache,
and it's going to remove them. So yeah,
this one can really free up some space
as well. And it has been proven to
improve the read and rights on older
hard drives. This can also take a while
depending on the amount of cache that
you have built up on your system. So,
you will have to be patient about this.
For me, it's just removed all of it.
Let's move on to the Fortnite Plus
settings. Now, of course, this one is
Fortnite specific, so the rest of the
gamers can move on to the next chapter
where I will be showing you the
benchmarks for the before and after for
both Fortnite and Valerant. So, your
Fortnite gamers will need to download
this one as well. Simply right click on
it and run it as admin. And inside of
here, the first one is the rendering
mode, which I have set to legacy
performance mode. Now, there's been a
lot of debate whether the new
performance mode works better or this
one. And from my findings, this one
works better on low-end PCs, while this
one may work better for more higher-end
PCs. So overall, I would still recommend
going with the legacy performance mode.
Then this is the resolution that I play
at. This is the FPS cap. Zero, meaning
that it is set to unlimited. Then reflex
low latency is set to on. Audio quality,
whether high or low, it doesn't make
that much of a difference. Now, but if
you have ADHD, then I would recommend
going with low. Then there are the
additional settings. So inside of here
are a bunch of tweaks. One is the enable
full screen, disable motion blur,
disable grass. So, this one should also
really help you with FPS, especially on
low-end PCs, show FPS, disable
anti-aliasing, custom super resolution,
set DLSS to zero, and you can read
through all of these. It's also going to
disable energy saver and mouse
acceleration, and basically sets all of
the quality settings to zero. And all
you need to do in order to apply these
is simply click on apply. You can also
click on recommended settings, and it's
going to select only those. And as you
can see that the settings have been
automatically applied. You can also
clear the Fortnite cache. But make sure
that you apply the settings after
clearing the cache. And you can then
disable full screen optimizations by
clicking on this checkbox. Since as you
can see it has automatically detected my
game install inside of my D partition.
Now you can close out of this. Launch
into Fortnite or any other game that you
play and I'll meet you with the
benchmarks. So looking at the benchmarks
starting off with Valerin. While the
overall FPS did not improve that much at
all. I think it may have improved by one
or two FPS, but yeah, the overall FPS
remained pretty much the same. The only
improvement that I observed was actually
in the stability of the FPS. So, the FPS
weren't dropping as much as they were
dropping before. But other than that,
yeah, there was no visible improvement
in case of Valerant. Let's move on to
Fortnite. Now, I was really curious
about this one since we not only used
the main optimization tool, but we also
use the Fortnite Plus settings. So, I
was expecting a noticeable improvement
in not only the FPS, but also the
overall responsiveness of the game. And
booting into it, well, it did not look
promising. The FPS did improve, but they
were not as much as I had expected.
However, the FPS once again were a lot
more stable than before. The game also
felt a bit more responsive since it did
manage to optimize the best settings.
But yeah, this is the improvement in
front of you. The FPS did improve, but
not as much as I had expected. So,
what's the final verdict? So, in my
opinion, all of you should give it a try
since it is completely free and the
results vary for different systems. So,
you might be able to get more out of
this tool than I could. Next up, let's
move on to the sticks optimizer. So,
after downloading it from the website, I
ran the utility as an admin, so we can
utilize all of its utilities. Right at
the start, it just exposes how broke you
are for using a potato PC like this
i76700
with the RX 580 that I'm using. But what
we are more concerned with is this view
code option which takes you to the
GitHub page. So I'm just going to yank
this code and show it to you side by
side. Also when you use the utility, it
downloads these resources and tools that
it will be using for the optimization
inside of your C drive. Let's start with
the tweaks tab. Optimize Windows. This
option as it says will optimize the
Windows settings ranging from power
saving to visual effects and everything
else that it does will be on screen
right now. Some of these settings are
quite questionable, but nothing that
will harm the performance so far. Then
there's the optimize kernel option,
which will make changes to the core of
the operating system and is for Windows
11 only. If we take a look at the code,
it changes some settings related to the
DPC watchdog profile offset, max dynamic
tick duration, and the minimum DPC rate.
So, these will impact the system latency
and not the FPS per se. I'm just going
to skip [music] this one. Optimize
memory. This will adjust the memory
management to ensure efficient resource
utilization. It will basically disable
clearing the page file at shutdown so
your system can shut down faster. Enable
large system cache. Reset non-page pool
koda as well as the size and disables
memory compression. Enable hags. This
will enable the hardware accelerated GPU
scheduling which allows the GPU to
manage its own memory and task
scheduling. This can reduce latency and
improve performance in GPU inensive
applications. setup TSC plus TSC. This
forces Windows to update your system
timer every 1 ms instead of the default
15.6 to 5ms. So, it's basically the
timer resolution software built into it.
And looking at the code, yeah, I was
right. It allows the Windows to use a
dynamic tick behavior instead of the
forced platform tick. Optimize storage
discs. Optimizing your storage will
improve performance and disable useless
checks. No way does optimizing something
improve performance. Just wow. So this
one is basically doing some minor NTFS
drive changes to save a little bit of
latency here and there. Adjust power
settings. This will disable some power
saving features within Windows and
improve performance like it will disable
the low power idle modes, disable
hibernation, unparks all CPU cores and
disable CPU C states, imports a custom
power plan and also opens the power
options menu. So we can select that
power plan. Optimize Nvidia GPU. So
[music] it basically blocks a lot of
Nvidia driver telemetry and reporting
services to prevent data collection and
also applies a custom Nvidia profile for
optimal Nvidia control panel settings.
Then there's the optimize Radeon GPU.
Disables various AMD GPU power saving
features like ulps or the ultra low
power state mode, UD clock gating, etc.
ensuring that the GPU runs at full
power. Next one is the network tab.
Disable power saving features on network
adapter to reduce latency. Then this one
will apply these whole bunch of changes
basically going through the internet
adapter and changes the settings that
are usually under the advanced tab so
that it can optimize the network speeds
and reduce ping. Disable net bios. Net
bios over TCP/IP
is an old networking protocol mostly
used for legacy network communication.
Disabling it can improve security and
also reduce unnecessary network traffic.
Disable LMH host lookup. This will
reduce the reliance on the LM host file
for name resolution which can help in
improving network security but not
really the performance. Setup QoS policy
allows your router to prioritize network
packet towards a specific application.
And looking at the code in this case it
will be Fortnite. So it's basically
going to set up a policy named Fortnite
policy and then it will mark the network
packets as high priority and low
latency. So sure let's turn it on.
Moving on to the debloat tab. Disable
startup apps will basically run the auto
runs program where you can disable any
app, task or service from starting up
with Windows, which can actually improve
performance by quite a bit. Quick tip,
if it doesn't start automatically, you
can run it manually from the C drive,
too. Disable HyperV. It's going to
disable all of the Hyper Virtualization
services. So, if you use HyperV VMs,
then they're no longer going to work.
Disable Bluetooth. Uninstall useless
apps will uninstall a lot of bloatware
that comes with the Windows install. And
the apps that it will uninstall are all
on screen. So you can pause the video
and take a look for yourself. Yep,
there's way too much junk on a clean
Windows install. Useless features will
disable useless features like remote
access to registry, Windows remote
management, schedule tasks, and even CIS
main, which is also known as super
fetch. Disable Microsoft Store is pretty
self-explanatory. Disabling telemetry
will run a program called Oendo Shutup
10, which I have actually covered in
many of my past videos since it's such a
useful app. So, it's going to use that
to disable a ton of telemetry or spy
services by Microsoft that collect data.
Some of those are actually shown on
screen right now. And yeah, Microsoft
has pretty much all of your data. So,
finally, let's look at the benchmarks.
Starting with my own benchmarks, I
decided to benchmark the God of War
2018, repeating a similar route. And
here are the results. Well, the footage
got corrupted somehow. So, here is only
the screenshots, but from the actual
benchmark results, you can see that the
results are not spectacular or anything,
but it's still an improvement. Now,
here's the interesting part. So, these
are the benchmarks of an older version
of this utility by Kore, which shows
much more improvement than my own. As
you can see that not only has the
average FPS improved, but also the 1
percentile and the 2 isn't really an
accurate measure, but we can clearly see
the improvement there as well. Next are
the Valerant benchmarks and it's pretty
[music] much the same here. However,
compared to the average FPS improvement,
the 1% lows and the 2% see a much more
significant improvement. So, take these
benchmarks with a grain of salt and
don't expect too much. And then we move
on to probably one of the most
well-known optimizers, and it's the EXM
tweaking utility. But before using the
utility, I benchmark three games, those
being Fortnite. And these are the
settings that I will be using for both
before and after benchmarks. Minecraft
is up next and finally we got Rocket
League and here are the settings for the
benchmarks. As you can see, everything
is pretty much set to high quality. Here
are roughly the before values for
average FPS that we are getting. We will
go more in depth with the stats and
everything at the end. Before applying
anything, let's create a restore point.
I'm just going to name it before exam so
I can remember it just to make sure that
I can revert the changes if something
goes wrong. All right, now that that's
done, let's run the optimizer as admin.
Oh, I have to full screen it. Welcome.
We are not responsible for blah blah
blah. Press any key to continue. Restore
point. So, it does give you that option
here. That's good. But we have already
created one. So, let's skip the restore
point. It's scanning for resources.
Resources not found or out of date.
Press okay to download them. Okay. And
here we are finally inside the tweaking
utility. Let's start with general
Windows optimizations. Apply general
registry and windows optimizations. M
for menu and we can revert tweaks too.
It applies general optimizations in
registry, windows settings, PCD edit and
more. Let's do it. So after applying a
bunch of changes, it opens up the
animations. Here we need to uncheck
everything except these three according
to him. So sure, let's follow him and do
as he says. Apply and okay. Full screen.
So I suppose these are the full screen
exclusive optimizations. One to set FSE
for Windows 11 and two to set FSE for
Windows 10. We can also skip these
steps. But since I'm on Windows 11,
let's press one. Operation completed.
Press any key to continue. Game mode.
Enable game mode for Windows 11 and
disable game mode for Windows 10. That's
not good, but still let's press one.
Core isolation. Disabling core isolation
boosts performance but leaves you more
vulnerable to driver-based attacks. So
if you care about the security, just
skip this one, but I'm going to disable
it for the video. Let's move on to power
optimizations. Do not do these if your
PC has overheating issues. Well, my PC
certainly doesn't, so let's do it. Apply
EXM free power plan V7. Yes, I'm using
my own custom power plan, but sure,
let's switch it to his one. Increases
performance and decreases latency. may
increase temperature. Disable power
saving features. Yes, of course. Disable
power telemetry. Yes. Delete useless
power plans. So, it's going to delete
the default Windows power plans. Let's
just skip this one. Disable hibernation,
fast startup, and more. Sure, let's do
it. Disable GPU power saving features.
Yes, of course. Wait, why does it say
Nvidia GPU? I have an AMD GPU, and
that's weird. But let's just continue.
Next are the keyboard and mouse
optimizations. Optimizes a bunch of
mouse and keyboard related registry
settings. Apply KBM registry
optimizations. Sure. So, it just
disabled mouse acceleration and a bunch
of other annoying settings. Set KBM data
Q size. Oh, this one can really mess up
the input if not set correctly. Let's
see. So, it gives you three options, 13,
18, and 22. I would recommend most of
you to go either 18 or 22 just to be
safe. Even though my system can handle
even 10. I'm just going to go with 22
for the sake of the video. Let's go
back. Apply USB optimizations. Okay, so
it disables USB power savings and set
some thread priorities. GPU
optimizations. So it once again detects
that I have an Nvidia GPU even though
I'm on AMD. So let's go to other GPU
brands. Apply AMD GPU optimizations. And
it just did a bunch of changes.
Hopefully it doesn't break anything.
>> [music]
>> Next are the CPU optimizations. Do not
do these if your PC has bad overheating
issues. Apply CPU optimizations for
Intel CPUs, general CPU optimizations,
disables power saving, seates, and more.
So, let's apply these. Once done, let's
head back. [music] Next is PC clean.
Clean temporary device data. So, I
assume it's like the device cleanup tool
that clears the remains of devices that
were once connected to the PC but are no
longer connected. Windows Clean Manager.
So, it just opens up the disc cleanup
utility. So, let's clean up. So, we have
to select everything here except the
direct X shader cache. And it's going to
clear out more than 500 MBs of junk.
Let's press okay and delete files. Wait
for it to finish. And by the way, it's
completely safe since it is a built-in
utility for Windows. Now that it's done,
let's head back. [music] Next one is the
system debloat. If you want to revert
anything, you can do it in or revert
category on the main page of the
utility. So, I believe it's talking
about the fixes and rewards right here.
Disable game DVR and Xbox. Of course, we
want to disable them. Disable telemetry.
So, telemetry is basically the Microsoft
spying services that collect data. So,
yes, we want to disable them and there's
a lot of it. Toggle Bluetooth. Disable
printing and maps. Sure, let's disable
them. Toggle mitigations. So, you can
disable mitigations and also reenable
them from here. Let's just disable them.
Mitigations are protections against
memory based attacks, but they come at a
performance cost. So, this should
improve performance by disabling them.
Disable diagnostics and error reporting.
Yes, of course. Toggle Microsoft Store.
So, this one lets you disable Microsoft
Store and enable it if you need it.
Disable HyperV breaks virtual machines.
Most of you guys don't use VMs, so you
should disable it, but I personally do
use virtual machines, so I'm just going
to skip [music] this one. Disable
startup apps. Let's see. So, it's going
to launch auto runs, the app that I
showed you in the resources. So, once
everything loads up. Let's just go
through the loon tab and uncheck
everything here that we don't want to
start up with Windows. I'm also going to
go through the schedule tasks and
services tab just to make sure that I
turn off everything. Once done, let's go
back. Windows update blocker. Disabling
Windows updates will break Microsoft
Store. If you want to use it again,
simply press enable in Windows update
blocker. So, here we can disable the
updates and protect service settings,
but I'm going to keep them enabled since
I paused them from the settings anyways.
Disable smart screen. It's that blue box
that appears if you run something not
signed by Microsoft, which isn't too
useful unless you are really concerned
about security. So, let's just disable
it. Uninstall useless apps. Uninstall
Windows pre-installed apps. So, this is
going to automatically remove the apps
that come installed with Windows, which
can delete some apps that you want to
use. So, let's not do this one.
Uninstall useless apps via settings. All
right, let's open it up. Inside of here,
you can go through this list and simply
uninstall anything that you don't want
on your PC, like this camera app that I
don't use at all. Uninstall Microsoft
Edge. Uninstall Cortana/Copilot.
Yes, please. I want to remove this junk
from my PC. All right, that's done.
Storage optimizations. Trim/defragment
drives. Well, it's not really
recommended to defrag SSDs, but if you
have a hard drive, use this option.
Disable right cache buffer flushing.
Once again, no. Optimize NTFS. Let's do
this one. Optimize lost access time
behavior and 8.3, of course. SSD boot
drive. Yes, I'm using an SSD. Disable
storage power savings. I'm going to
select the SSD option once again. Let's
go back to the menu. Memory
optimizations. optimizes a bunch of RAM
related registry settings for optimal
performance. Disables a bunch of useless
features which hinder your performance.
So here you want to select the RAM you
have. Let's open the task manager. Then
go to performance and under memory you
can see that I have 8 gigs of RAM on
this machine. So I'm going to select the
option number two and hit enter. And it
applied all these changes. Additional/
quality of life set EXM wallpaper better
wallpaper quality. So let's do it.
Disable UAC. This will just remove the
annoying popup when you run something as
admin. Show file extensions and dark
mode are already enabled. Real Fortnite
ping. Let's check this one out. I'm
going to select the Middle East server.
And now it's going to ping the Fortnite
servers there. Well, that took quite
some time, but the average result is
about the same as I get in my game, so
it's not really that helpful. EXM
network tweaking utility. Create a
restore point. I'm just going to skip
this one. And what harm could it
possibly do? Well, future me here. So,
it did a lot of harm. After applying
these network tweaks, Epic Games
Launcher just wouldn't connect to the
internet. So, I had to reset my network
to make it work. So, yeah, back to the
video. Just make sure that you create
the restore point. This one has a lot of
options in here which we can apply from
here. But what he recommends is that you
go through this tutorial and then apply
these settings. So, let's do that. So, I
believe that's all. Let's exit the
utility and restart the PC for all the
changes to apply properly. Finally, we
can look at the benchmarks. Starting
with Fortnite, as you can see, it
improved by about 4.1 average FPS, while
the 1% lows and.1% lows are pretty much
the same. Here's also the in-game
sideby-side comparison, and we can
definitely see an improvement, but it's
just not as much. Let's put down the
average FPS we are roughly getting
inside of our Notepad. Moving on to
Minecraft, the average FPS improved by
about 5 FPS, while the 1% lows and
the.1% lows saw some good improvement.
The sideby-side comparison shows not too
much of a difference at all, but let's
just note down the average FPS on a
Notepad once again. Finally, we have
Rocket League. So, this one is really
interesting. As you can see, before we
were getting average FPS above 200,
which dropped down to 169 after using
this optimizer, while the 1% lows and.1%
low saw some improvement because it was
dropping a lot before, which it still
does, as you can see from the sidebyside
in-game comparison, but the overall
average FPS dropped quite a bit. Let's
put it into our Notepad 2. And here's
the final verdict. I expected it to give
us at least 25% improvement, but yeah,
it pretty much failed to deliver. Is it
still any good? I would say yes. Rather
than not doing any optimizations, you
should definitely try this one out. And
finally, we have got not really an
optimizer, but a complete optimization
pack, but it worked so well for Valerant
specifically that I had to include it
inside of this video. This was actually
recommended by a subscriber in the last
video. So, I'm going to be benchmarking
it to see if it's really any good or if
it's just the same as any other. I tried
to download their free tweaking utility,
but the issue that I run into is that if
I try to extract it, uh, well, yeah, I
get this error and nothing seems to work
here. So, I did the next best thing and
downloaded all of their optimizations
manually, mainly the CPU optimizations,
the Fortnite optimizations and the
Valerant optimizations since these are
both of the games that I'll be
benchmarking. Starting off with CPU
optimizations, enabling all CPU cores,
it wants us to go inside of this
shortcut, which is going to go ahead and
open up the system configuration. Now,
what they want you to do is go inside of
boot, go into the advanced options,
check this number of processes, set it
to max, but I'm going to call it
because this actually does
nothing. So, I'm going to uncheck this,
hit okay and apply because this is a
really useless tweak. This unlocking of
the number of processors is only for
testing purposes in order to limit the
processors on boot and it has nothing to
do with the actual Windows performance
or the performance of your games. So,
let's see what they got other than this.
Moving on to unpack all CPU cores. Of
course, this one is a highly recommended
one and I always do it myself. So, what
I'm going to do is unplug all, hit okay,
apply, okay, and now we can close out of
this. Moving back into the pack, disable
HPE. So, it wants us to open up the
device manager. I'm going to go ahead
and click on open. And then we can
scroll down until we get the high
precision event timer. I'm going to
right click on it and disable device.
Hit yes. And now we have successfully
disabled the HPE. Moving on to registry
tweaks for the CPU. If I right click on
it and click on edit, you see that it
does the basic tweaks such as system
responsiveness, GPU and CPU priority in
terms of the gaming profiles. And then
there is the processor scheduling which
sets the Win32 priority to 26, basically
focusing on foreground apps. So nothing
too fancy, but some good stuff. So I'm
going to go ahead and definitely double
click on it, hit yes, and then hit okay.
Power run isn't really needed for this.
And the second one is the timer fix.bat.
If I go ahead and edit this, we can see
that it disables all of those enhanced
timer precision and all of that stuff.
So, we're going to be going ahead and
running it as admin. Let's move on to
the import power plan and it reduces CPU
cycles. So, for this one, what I'm going
to do is right click on the power run,
run it as admin, and then I'm going to
simply go ahead and drag it onto here.
Then click on run file. As you can see,
it wants me to open it. I'm going to
click on run. And then it should
download and import their system power
plan. It's been downloaded. Let's open
up the power options. And going into the
power options, it was automatically
applied. Sign as power plan. You're
officially on the best plan. That's what
they say, not me. So, let's close out of
this. Let's move back and open up the
disabled startup apps. So, it basically
wants me to go ahead and disable any of
the startup apps simply from the task
manager right here. As you can see, I
have disabled pretty much all of them
except for this one. Let's disable this
as well. And that's it. Now, we can
close out of this. Move back. And the
final one is the CPU BIOS optimizations.
And for this one, they want you to buy
their service, which I don't recommend.
So, let's move on to the second pack,
and that is Fortnite optimizations.
First one are the Fortnite settings. And
they just want you to apply the best
Fortnite and Epic Games Launcher
settings, which I believe all of you
have already applied, including me.
Let's skip this and move on to the power
plan, which is once again the same one
that we have already imported. So, let's
move on to visual tweaks. Let's open up
the visual performance tweaks. And from
here, as you can see, I have pretty much
applied the best settings already. You
can go ahead and disable a few more if
you want, but to be honest, this does
not make that much of a difference. I
mean, I have tested with the best for
performance as well as this one. There's
a very minor difference, and that too on
just the very low-end PCs. So, I
wouldn't really recommend unchecking
anything other than all of these ones
that I have unchecked. Then, hit okay.
And let's move on to the registry
tweaks. So, this does say Windows 11
registry tweaks, but I'm sure they work
for Windows 10 as well. So, let's see
what's inside of them. And judging from
here, most of these are just the app
permissions, some searches, as well as a
bit of mouse and the same words for the
win32 priority. And yeah, you can go
ahead and read through all of this.
These are pretty much all of the basic
tweaks, and nothing is suspicious or
anything that I wouldn't really
recommend. So, we're going to close out
of this, double click on it, hit yes,
and hit okay. Let's move on to the
Nvidia control panel. Well,
unfortunately, I have an AMD GPU, so
this isn't really any useful to me.
Skipping this, let's move on to MSI
utility. So, with this one, those of you
who don't know what to do, simply right
click on it, run it as admin, and once
this opens up, just go ahead and make
sure to find your graphics card, then
check the MSI box, set the interrupt
priority to high, hit apply, and close
out of this. And that's all. Moving
back, the final one are once again the
BIOS settings, and this time we actually
have a document inside of here. So, if
you are an Intel user, go to your BIOS
and change all of these settings. And
for the AMD Ryzen users, simply go ahead
and use these [music] settings. And
yeah, these settings are actually pretty
good. I do highly recommend that you go
ahead and follow all of these. Go into
your BIOS. I cannot record my BIOS and
then come back to follow along with me
or you can basically go ahead and leave
them for the end. That's it for the
Fortnite optimizations. Let's move on to
Valerant optimizations. And a lot of
these have already been covered in the
previous ones. So, I'm just going to go
ahead and skip to uninstalling Game Bar.
So, I'm going to right click on it,
click on edit, and as you can see, it's
just going to go ahead and remove all of
the Xbox apps. So, if you don't really
use them or need them, you can go ahead
and remove all of those by simply right
clicking on it and running it as admin.
Moving on to the mouse optimizations.
So, both of these will basically help
with mouse acceleration and fixing the
mouse input. So, yeah, we're going to be
going ahead and applying these, running
it as admin. And once this one is done,
we can move on to applying this one. But
yeah, that's it for all of these
optimizations. Let me restart my PC and
then I'll hit you with the benchmarks.
So, moving on to the benchmarks. In
Fortnite, the average FPS went from 220s
to 210s, meaning it decreased by 10 FPS,
while the 1% lows went from 150s to
140s, making it the worst optimization
for Fortnite. Moving on to Valerin, the
average FPS went from 230s to above 300,
while the 1% lows also improved, going
from 140s to 180s, which is pretty
impressive. So, where do I put this?
Judging from its performance in both
Fortnite and Valerant, well, I'll have
to put it into the very low good tier. I
was actually going to go ahead and put
it into the me tier until I saw its
improvements in Valerant. So, I wouldn't
really recommend this to Fortnite users.
For them, I'll put it in the garbage
tier. But then for the Valerant users, I
would recommend using this. There's one
more very important thing that I forgot
to tell